powers real-time business communications and data solutions that help companies and developers worldwide build better applications and customer experiences.

Although we're headquartered in San Francisco, we have presence throughout South America, Europe, Asia and Australia. We're on a journey to becoming a globally anti-racist, anti-oppressive, anti-bias company that actively opposes racism and all forms of oppression and bias. At Twilio, we support diversity, equity & inclusion wherever we do business. We employ thousands of Twilions worldwide, and we're looking for more builders, creators, and visionaries to help fuel our growth momentum.

About The Job

This position is needed to lead data architecture for the industry-leading CDP inside Twilio.

This role will guide building of key systems and products as part of the Twilio/Segment product portfolio, including stream data processing, storage and other mission-critical systems. This role will also provide oversight to engineering efforts for all engineering teams that are part of the Segment CDP group.

Responsibilities

In this role, you’ll:
Design and review core system designs making up the Segment CDP product
Partner with other engineering leads across Twilio to build world-class products
Ensure world-class reliability, security and cost-efficiency for all the products we build
Mentor other engineers on the team throughout their journey
Qualifications

Not all applicants will have skills that match a job description exactly. Twilio values diverse experiences in other industries, and we encourage everyone who meets the required qualifications to apply. While having “desired” qualifications make for a strong candidate, we encourage applicants with alternative experiences to also apply. If your career is just starting or hasn't followed a traditional path, don't let that stop you from considering Twilio. We are always looking for people who will bring something new to the table!

Required
Have a track record of designing and building large-scale, cloud-based, highly available software platforms.
Domain expertise in Modern Data stack with experience in developing cloud-based data solution components and architecture covering data ingestion, data processing and data storage
A thought leader in the cloud architecture space with a demonstrated bias for action
Have the ability to balance long-term objectives with urgent short-term needs
Have demonstrated the ability to design complex systems in an iterative and evolutionary manner.
Location

This role will be remote, and based in the USA.

What We Offer

There are many benefits to working at Twilio, including, in addition to competitive pay, things like generous time-off, ample parental and wellness leave, healthcare, a retirement savings program, and much more. Offerings vary by location.

Twilio thinks big. Do you?

We like to solve problems, take initiative, pitch in when needed, and are always up for trying new things. That's why we seek out colleagues who embody our values — something we call Twilio Magic . Additionally, we empower employees to build positive change in their communities by supporting their volunteering and donation efforts.

So, if you're ready to unleash your full potential, do your best work, and be the best version of yourself, apply now!

If this role isn't what you're looking for, please consider other open positions .
Please note this role is open to candidates outside of Colorado, California, New York, and Washington. The information below is provided for candidates hired in those locations only.
The estimated pay ranges for this role are as follows:
Based in Colorado: $213,120 - $266,400
Based in New York, Washington State or California (outside the San Francisco Bay Area): $225,680 - $282,100
Based in the San Francisco Bay area, California: $250,720 - $313,400
This role may be eligible to participate in Twilio’s equity plan. All roles are eligible for the following benefits: health care insurance, 401(k) retirement account, paid sick time, paid personal time off, paid parental leave.
The successful candidate’s starting salary will be determined based on permissible, non-discriminatory factors such as skills, experience, and geographic location within the state.